docs(*) fips (#4306)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/kong-enterprise/fips-support.md

---
title: FIPS 140-2
badge: enterprise
content_type: reference
---

{{site.base_gateway}} provides support for the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS 140-2). Compliance with this standard is typically required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.

> {{site.base_gateway}} offers a FIPS compliant package. The package meets FIPS compliancy because the primary library in {{site.base_gateway}}, OpenSSL, is replaced with the [BoringSSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl/), which at its core uses the FIPS 140-2 compliant BoringCrypto for cryptographic operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{site.base_gateway}} offers a FIPS package. The package replaces the primary library in {{site.base_gateway}}, OpenSSL, with the [BoringSSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl/), which at its core uses the FIPS 140-2 compliant BoringCrypto for cryptographic operations.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

{{site.base_gateway}} uses FIPS compliant algorithms in all core components when configured. Not all plugins are currently not FIPS compliant.
```

Reviewer: @fffonion, @mheap - this wasn't included in the Legal review so I've modified to just refer to the use of BoringSSL rather than statements on FIPS compliance.

{:.note}

> > {{site.base_gateway}} is not FIPS-validated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> {{site.base_gateway}} and the {{site.base_gateway}} FIPS package are not FIPS-validated or certified.
```

> >Outside of this package Kong does not offer FIPS-validated cryptographic encryption. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> {{site.base_gateway}} is not FIPS-validated.
```

> ## Install FIPS-compliant {{site.base_gateway}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Install the {{site.base_gateway}} FIPS package
```

The only supported {{site.base_gateway}} distribution is based on Ubuntu 20.04 and can be installed with the package distinctively named `kong-enterprise-edition-fips`.

To install the {{site.base_gateway}} FIPS package use:

    apt install kong-enterprise-edition-fips`.

{:.note .no-icon}
> FIPS mode is only supported in Ubuntu 20.04

### Configure FIPS

> After the package is installed, set the following variable to `on` in the `kong.conf` configuration file before starting {{site.base_gateway}}, to start in FIPS-compliant mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the package is installed, set the following variable to `on` in the `kong.conf` configuration file before starting {{site.base_gateway}}, to start in FIPS mode. 
```

```
fips = on # fips mode is enabled, causing incompatible ciphers to be disabled
```

You can also use an environment variable:

```bash
export KONG_FIPS=on
```

{:.important .no-icon}

> > Migrating from non-FIPS to FIPS mode requires manually resetting RBAC. We will facilitate this migration in future versions of {{site.base_gateway}}.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest to not make this promise here until we are firm about this use case, as migrating from/to fips mode is messy and will cause lots of toubles.
```suggestion
> Migrating from non-FIPS to FIPS mode and backwards is not supported.
```

---
title: FIPS 140-2
badge: enterprise
content_type: reference
---

{{site.base_gateway}} provides support for the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS 140-2). Compliance with this standard is typically required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.

{{site.base_gateway}} offers a FIPS package. The package replaces the primary library in {{site.base_gateway}}, OpenSSL, with the [BoringSSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl/), which at its core uses the FIPS 140-2 compliant BoringCrypto for cryptographic operations.

> {{site.base_gateway}} uses BoringSSL algorithms in all core components when configured.
> {:.note}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{site.base_gateway}} uses BoringSSL algorithms in all core components when configured.

{:.note}
```

> {:.note}
> > {{site.base_gateway}} and the {{site.base_gateway}} FIPS package are not FIPS-validated or certified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{:.note .no-icon}
> {{site.base_gateway}} and the {{site.base_gateway}} FIPS package are not FIPS-validated or certified.
```

## Install the {{site.base_gateway}} FIPS package

> The only supported {{site.base_gateway}} distribution is based on Ubuntu 20.04 and can be installed with the package distinctively named `kong-enterprise-edition-fips`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only supported {{site.base_gateway}} distribution is based on Ubuntu 20.04.

```

Reviewer 4: We should leave the package name in there as it is a different name to standard install instructions
